# DH101Group
Here's my repository for my group project for DH 101 Summer 2021 with Brooks Jessup

## My Project:
## Group: Bias and Exclusivity in the Digital Humanities
### Abstract:
For our group presentation, me, Hannah Shlesinger, and Emily Lopez explored the affects of bias and identity within the Digital Humanities. We focused on the readings by Tara McPherson, Moya Bailey, Kim Gallon, and Denise Pacheco and Veronica Nelly Velez. These readings all looked at how identity and social trends shape digital humanities research, and especially how bias influences how we use research tools. All scholars used critical race theory in their approach and looked at the Digital Humanities as a way to confront racial disparities in academia. Working together with a group was enlightening. All 3 of us took different approaches to the project, with Hannah focusing on UNIX and social movements of the 1960s, Emily focusing on identity, and me focusing on bias in maps. We were able to provide each other with inspiration and insight and build upon ideas. Working together really helped the project move forward, because when one of us would have trouble with one area, someone else could jump in with an idea.By splitting our project up into multiple sections, we each became a mini expert on our topic. The section on maps was very interesting to me and I plan on pursuing more research that uses maps. I got to think more critically about how maps are used and the biases that are embedded within them. I will be more critical of research methods in the future and be more aware of my own identity and biases when conducting research and displaying my findings.

